Update data-sources.md (#210)
elixir-europe/infectious-diseases-toolkit: socioeconomic-data/data-sources.md

For these reasons, the social sciences are considered an integral part of the BY-COVID project. The project aims to mobilize social science data via the [COVID-19 Data Portal](https://www.covid19dataportal.org/); to connect it with other sources of data such as clinical or virological data; to standardize social science data; and provide methods and protocols for exposing and analysing it. 

### Considerations

- **Methodologies**: Social sciences methodologies are quite diverse and complex as they try to investigate complex, changeable, and often intangible social phenomena such as trust, ideology, or socioeconomic status. Thus, social sciences use both quantitative and qualitative research methods, often in combination, ranging from large scale quantitative surveys, to interviews or ethnographic research. As such, socioeconomic research methodologies and data often differs significantly from the those typically used in the life sciences. 

> - **Sensitive data** and privacy considerations: due to the prevalence of sensitive and personal data in the domain of socioeconomic research, access to such data is often limited by serious data protection and privacy concerns, often making the use and sharing of such data difficult. Solutions such as pseudonimising data, or providing access via secure environments such as the [ODDISEI Secure ANalysis Environment (SANE)](https://odissei-data.nl/en/2022/02/secure-analysis-environment-sane-secure-data-for-social-sciences-and-humanities/) can often provide some level of access to sensite data, yet much of this data is only available on request, or as aggregated data. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Sensitive data and privacy**: due to the prevalence of sensitive and personal data in the domain of socioeconomic research, access to such data is often limited by serious data protection and privacy concerns, often making the use and sharing of such data difficult. Solutions such as pseudonymising data, or providing access via secure environments such as the [ODDISEI Secure ANalysis Environment (SANE)](https://odissei-data.nl/en/2022/02/secure-analysis-environment-sane-secure-data-for-social-sciences-and-humanities/) can often provide some level of access to sensitive data, yet much of this data is only available on request, or as aggregated data. 
```

### Existing approaches

The pandemic of COVID-19 has shown the impact of socioeconomic factors in terms of governance and state-citizens relations when it comes to an efficient response of science (to deal with infectious diseases) for the benefit of the society. 

Indicatively, there has been a considerable number of social  surveys dealing with the pandemic and its consequences in several aspects of the everyday life of citizens at global and EU level. There has been, compared to previous pandemics, a major difference, meaning that the progress of information, digitisation, statistics included, citizens were aware of the extent, the seriousness of the various whilst at the same time citizens received information about scientific efforts and achievements to deal with diseases. 

> From the demography perspective, there have been surveys and related publications proving the relation of household structures, housing conditions (Giorgi & Boertien 2021), the role of nursing homes, especially during the first wave (Bernandi et all 2021), the role of gender or socioeconomic status (Horton 2021) etc. From the perspective of political science, psychology or sociology sciences’  perspective, surveys that studied the effect of conspiracy theories regarding vaccines, propagation of virus and others, have show clusters of people that relate resistance to vaccines with respect to personal ideology , adherence to conspiracy theories or that lower level of education, religiosity, conspiracy thinking can be an indicator for vaccine resistance (Haaksonen & Furman 2022). 

Reviewer: I think we need to find a way to add these references as it has to be consistent from other pages.
Could you find a DOI for all of them so we can add them maybe?

> From the demography perspective, there have been surveys and related publications proving the relation of household structures, housing conditions (Giorgi & Boertien 2021), the role of nursing homes, especially during the first wave (Bernandi et all 2021), the role of gender or socioeconomic status (Horton 2021) etc. From the perspective of political science, psychology or sociology sciences’  perspective, surveys that studied the effect of conspiracy theories regarding vaccines, propagation of virus and others, have show clusters of people that relate resistance to vaccines with respect to personal ideology , adherence to conspiracy theories or that lower level of education, religiosity, conspiracy thinking can be an indicator for vaccine resistance (Haaksonen & Furman 2022). 

Author: ```suggestion
From the demography perspective, there have been surveys and related publications proving the relation of household structures, housing conditions ([Giorgi & Boertien 2021: DOI: 10.1186/s41118-021-00124-8](https://doi.org/10.1186/s41118-021-00124-8)), the role of nursing homes, especially during the first wave ([Bernandi et al. 2021. DOI: 10.1186/s41118-021-00119-5] (https://doi.org/10.1186/s41118-021-00119-5)), the role of gender or socioeconomic status [Horton 2020. DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(20)32000-6](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32979964/) etc. From the perspective of political science, psychology or sociology sciences’  perspective, surveys that studied the effect of conspiracy theories regarding vaccines, propagation of virus and others, have show clusters of people that relate resistance to vaccines with respect to personal ideology , adherence to conspiracy theories or that lower level of education, religiosity, conspiracy thinking can be an indicator for vaccine resistance (Haaksonen & Furman 2022). 
```

## Relevant data sources

<!--- Subsection related to a specific topic related to the data sources of the category that you selected.--->

Currently, the COVID-19 Data Portal contains over 537 metadata records from the [Consortium of European Social Science Data Archives' (CESSDA)](https://www.cessda.eu/) [CESSDA Data Catalogue (CDC)](https://datacatalogue.cessda.eu/), which will soon be joined by data from the [European University Institute's (EUI)](https://www.eui.eu/en/home) [COVID-19 SSH Data Portal](https://eui-covid-data.cottagelabs.com/). BY-COVID also aims to add additional data sources over time. 

The relevant work in the BY-COVID project is performed in the context of activities related to relevant socio-economics data sources for infectious disease outbreaks led by KNAW-DANS and with the participation and expertise of TAU-FSD, EKKE, and EUI. KNAW-DANS, TAU-FSD and EKKE participate in the project as affiliated entities of CESSDA. 

> BY-COVID uses two primary, and multiple secondary data sources for socioeconomic data, which will be outlined in this section. Both primary and secondary data sources provide data that relate to or are relevant for COVID-19 and other infectious disease outbreaks, and therefore the BY-COVID project. The two primary data were determined early on the project, while the list of secondary sources will be progressively identified throughout the course of the project. These data sources are filtered for data relevant to the project, and the resulting metadata is prepared and harmonized via a [harvesting tool](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1a5mbLb3rNVTofD4jTTeIqN3qJnb2QhBI/edit#) before being added to the COVID-19 Data Platform (for more details, see project deliverable [D2.1](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1a5mbLb3rNVTofD4jTTeIqN3qJnb2QhBI/edit#heading=h.7ngyrwsprxyn)).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
BY-COVID uses two primary, and multiple secondary data sources for socioeconomic data, which will be outlined in this section. Both primary and secondary data sources provide data that relate to or are relevant for COVID-19 and other infectious disease outbreaks, and therefore the BY-COVID project. The two primary data were determined early on the project, while the list of secondary sources will be progressively identified throughout the course of the project. These data sources are filtered for data relevant to the project, and the resulting metadata is prepared and harmonized via a [harvesting tool](https://t2-4.by-covid.bsc.es/jspui/) before being added to the COVID-19 Data Platform (for more details, see project deliverable [D2.1](https://zenodo.org/record/7017728).
```
Changed the links to the webpage of the harvester and the zenodo DOI of the deliverable

### Considerations

> - **Licenses**: Socio-economic data sources are generally public and accessible, but authorization or licensing agreements may be required to access some datasets. While the complete datasets may not always be openly available, the metadata is typically freely accessible. Socio-economic data sources in the BY-COVID project also offer programmatic access to their metadata using standards like the Open Archives Initiative Protocol for Metadata Harvesting (OAI-PMH). This enables the automated harvesting, harmonisation, and transformation of metadata into the OmicsDI format, which can then be utilised by the Covid-19 Data Portal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Licenses**: Socio-economic data sources are generally public and accessible, but authorization or licensing agreements may be required to access some datasets. While the complete datasets may not always be openly available, the metadata is typically freely accessible. Socio-economic data sources in the BY-COVID project also offer programmatic access to their metadata using standards like the Open Archives Initiative Protocol for Metadata Harvesting (OAI-PMH). This enables the automated harvesting, harmonisation, and transformation of metadata into the OmicsDI format, which can then be used by the COVID-19 Data Portal.
```
Changed Covid-19 Data Portal to COVID-19 Data Portal for consistency
